Welcome back guys to one of the most important lecture and discourse which I will talk about P. controller
and actually in this lecture I'm going to explain the concept of the controller without talking much
in mathematical details so that you will enjoy the lecture understand the concept of the controller
and not get bored.
So let's get started as we have talked in previous lectures about any control system we have what we
call a system or plant and we have the most magical equations of this plant.
The plant produce controlled variable.
So this variable is the one I want to control or I want to make it reach to a certain value in order
to make any control system.
Actually we take a feedback signal from this control variable and we feed it back to a summing point
in which we have here commanded variable and what is commanded variable.
It is a variable that I want my output to reach.
For example if your planet is a mess spring then being system and you want your Mars to reach five Sunny
meters for example above the ground.
So the command of the variable is five centimeters.
You may design a controllers that makes your system not reaching five centimeters.
Maybe for example four point eight centimeters in a steady state response.
So here we have what we call error or error is command is variable minus control variable.
And actually we feed this error or inside the controller.
We designed this controller in order to make our control variable reach as a desired value I would of
this controller is activating single and activating signal enters a plant in order to control or to
provide the control action to the control variable.
One of the most important types of controller is what we call P idea controller or proportional integral
derivative controller and actually what we do in any controller is to analyze and use this error signal
in order to provide and add your kid activating signal so NPI the controller we have here an input minus
the output or the control variable which provides aero there is feed to three blocks the first block
is for proportional controller and proportional controller have a constant KP times the error signal
and also we have what we call integral controller in integral controller we integrate the arrow signal
and we have derivative controller in which we differentiate the error signal the three signals out of
these three components are summing and provided to actual waiting signal and Owen to talk in details
about the mathematical foundation of the API the controller but actually the most important concept
I want you to get from this lecture is to understand what is meant pi P idea controller.
So in order to explain this concept we would look at drone controlling problem so in measures that we
have drone and we want this drone to reach 50 meters above the ground.
If we look at the drone we will find that we have the weight of drone which pulls the drone down.
And in order for the drone to fly or hover we need to provide the force from here.
We found that forces that will be equilibrium with the weight and cancels the effect of weight is at
one hundred ppm which means if this drone reaches or the motors of this drone reaches one hundred or
APM we will provide the forces that cancels the weight of this drone.
At this moment the drone will hover.
So we need this drone to reach 50 meters and at this height hovers.
So if we look at our control system the plant here is the drone and we have the mathematical equations
of the drone.
The desired output is reaching 50 meters.
We want this drone to reach 50 meters and hover at this height the active waiting signal is propeller
speed.
So is the output of this controller is a propeller speed.
So we want this value to be at 100 R B M and for example we will try a proportional controller so we
will use KP and I will show you how to use different values of KP in order to track the response and
error of this strong so emissions that this drone and the ground.
So in this case the error is 50 minus zero which is 50 based on our controller design.
We will find that the speed equals to error times a proportional controller constant.
So for example imagine that we have used KP equals 2 2 and once the drone is in the ground which means
that the error is 50 minus zero.
We will find that the speed of the motors equals to fifty times two which equals to 100.
R B M So in this case the drone will hover in the ground.
We may increase the value of KP to be for example 5.
So in this case the drone will go up until reaching height of 30 metres.
The error in this case is 50 minus 30 equals to 20 metres and the speed equals to 20 times the KP which
is five so equals to 100.
So at this case the drone will hover because we reach and speed of 100 R B M but we still have what
we call a steady state error which is 20 when increasing the value of KP you will find that we have
reduced the steady state error but there is no way for this error to reach to zero or to be eliminated
for a very simple reason.
If this error reached to zero value the speed of the drone will be zero.
So the drone will be dropped from its height.
So in many applications when using proportional controllers we will not remove what we call a steady
state error.
The problem now is we want to eliminate the steady state error.
So imagine that we have added to our control design what we call integral controller and the integral
controller actually takes the error and integrated over time to provide the control action the derivative
controller pace and information from past because it integrates error starting from the simulating time
until reaching the desired output.
So we always look about information from past.
So it's like memory it integrates error over time.
So let's look at the drone problem again.
Imagine that the drone has prized up.
So we have here what we call a steady state or the steady state or here is none zero value which is
constant value.
So what integral controller do is when integrating non-zero value.
We will have increasing action so the drone speed will keep to increase until reaching to a point where
the steady state error reached to zero.
In this case we are adding zero to our problem.
So the actual waiting signal will not change and the drone will be hover at 50 meters.
So now we have managed to eliminate the steady state error.
Now the question is does this controller actually do what supposed to do.
Is it a good controller to consider.
The answer is It depends on your applications and this example will tell you why.
Imagine this case where we have a very small error in which we can consider as a proportional controller
is not working because we have an error which is very small that reaches to zero.
So we have no control action from this proportional controller.
But actually what we have here is the integral controller will keep something the error over time so
that we will find that we are not reaching 100 or PPM speed.
We will pass this speed to another speed for example one hundred and two.
So what we have here is we have overshoot or we have reach and undesired value.
So as a drone now will not be at 50 meters.
It will be for example above this 50 meters by a small amount.
And this is will produce a negative arrow.
This negative Arrow is a must in order to integrate the controller to correct this action or this overshoot
and give back to the steady state.
So yes we have eliminated the steady state error but actually we have created what we call overshoot
in order to get back to the steady state position.
In some applications overshooting is not a good thing.
So what is a solution to this problem.
You need to upgrade your controller.
We have added almost our term to our controller which is derivative controller and actually a derivative
controller looks at future for a very simple reason it differentiates error over time.
So imagine that the drone is moving up was very high speed and actually what controllers see is that
we have rate of change of error or that error is decreasing with high rate of change.
And by differentiating the error we will reach to negative value of error which is actually reducing
the speed of the drone.
So the drone will go up very speed until the derivative controller adds a control action and the drone
will go slow to reaching to 100.
Our P M. and will hover at 50 meters so actually we have managed to eliminate the oscillations and overshoot
by using derivative controller.
So now we have built what we call P R D controller API D controller managed to eliminate the steady
state error of this drone and actually to reach to fast response of this drone in order to move from
the ground up to 50 meters without overshooting or oscillations so in order to summarize what we have
talked in this lecture we have talked about three terms and the controller is a proportional controller.
And actually it doesn't eliminate the steady state error in most applications and in real life proportional
controller always added was other controllers high gain values reduces a steady state or but leads to
some system oscillations
integral plus proportional controller the integral controller integrates and or signal over time it
manages to eliminate the steady state error.
But unfortunately it adds overshoot and in some systems it can lead to system instability
derivative plus proportional controller the derivative controller has high sensitivity provides significant
correction before the error becomes too large and doesn't affect the city state or directly add to them
being to the system which eliminates or removes the overshoot.